# CSC212_Finalproject
# Final project for CSC212
#    For the final project I decided to do a to do list. The data structure I'm using is heap. By putting tasks onto the list, the list will rearrange tasks and returning them in a customized order. I had a total of six files for this project, main.cpp, node,cpp, node.h, heap.cpp, heap.h, and a Cmake file. Main.cpp is a simple file that calls the TO_DO_LIST() function. Node.h is a file containing class node initialized as int type. Within the class node there is a constructor node, member functions of node, and private member variables. The constructor is initialized as having an empty string, an empty int, two NULL pointers. The functions for the class are setters and getters. All functions in this class have a time complexity of O(1). Private member variables are data_field that holds string, value_field holds int, left_child and right_child hold pointers. Since everything is done in node.h, node.cpp is actually empty but just in case I need to put some functions there.

#   Heap.h and heap.cpp are the main parts of the project. Heap.h has a constructor of heap with node type, setting private member root_ptr and current_ptr to NULL. There are 13 member functions in heap.h. Create_root is use for create root pointer and the time complexity is O(1) there's no loop in the function. Function insert is to insert a new node into the heap. The time complexity is O(n) because there is a loop and a function call of reheapification which is O(n) and it will be O(2n) or O(n). Inorder is a function of reheapification. The reason why calling it inorder is because inorder will take ina parameter and when I call reheapification I don't need to give any parameter. Inorder is O(n) because it is recursive function. Same for reheapification because it is just calling inorder. Root_remove is the function for removing the root pointer. It has O(3n) or O(n) as time complexity because there are two while loops inside the function and a function call of reheapification. Most_important is use for cout the first task on the list and it is O(1). Insert_left and insert_right are functions for insert without reheapification. these two are used only for the question list and both are O(1). Questions are questions for user to answer, it is a binary tree of questions just like the animal tree. It has a time complexity of O(1) because everything inside is constant. DLD stands for difficulty level determination which is asking the user how much do they weight their tasks. The time complexity is O(n) because of the while loop. Print_task is a funciton that prints all the tasks from the list. IT IS NOT IN DEFINITE ORDER. The time complexity is O(n) because of while loop. Count is used for counting the number of tasks on the list. It is not necessary but just a feature for the user to have. The time complexity and reason are same as count. To_do_list is the last and most important funciton. It is combination of all other functions. the time complexity can be O(n*2) or O(n) depending on user's input. What is does is depending on user's input, this funcion will do one of the smaller function inside and as a whole it will work as a to do list.

#    The reason for choosing this project is to organize things in live. When people don't know what should they do next, they can use this as a reference. It can organize things in a priority queue sequence which is able to remind user what they should to first. Just like heap will arrange nodes by its weight. The advantages of this are to keep trak of tasks, and it is costomized for everyone. The disadvantages are costomized for everyone. Because it is under limited amount of time and it is costomized for myself only. weighting tasks are depending on my habits and costomizing is only available for programmer. Once it's compiling, there is no way to change it. Besides that it is not precise enough. people may want it to be precise to minutes. Options for weighting tasks are extremely limited in this case. I chose heap because I want the most important thing on my list, not a random thing from the list. It is perfect data structure for this topic because its unique property match the purpose of to do list. Heap is good for sorting and seleting max or min from an array. Compare to other data structures, it is limited for specific applications. Unlike others are able to use in a wide open field.
